welcome back in this video I will
discuss how to calculate the different
performance metrics given the confusion
Matrix for multi-class classification
problem
in this case we have been given a
confusion Matrix with the three classes
that is class 1 Class 2 and class 3.
given this confusion Matrix we will try
to calculate the different performance
Matrix here
before we calculate the different
performance Matrix first we need to
convert this particular multi-class
classification problems confusion Matrix
into binary classification problems
confusion Matrix it looks something like
this again I have two classes on the
vertical axis predicted classes on the
horizontal axis this particular
conclusion Matrix contains two classes
the first class is s and the second
class is no in this vertical case
now if you look at this particular TP TP
is nothing but the number of s examples
which are classified as scr that is
nothing but the true positive in this
particular case this FN is nothing but
the number of yes examples which were
classified as no in this case that is
nothing but false negative in this case
coming back to the third entry that is
FP that is nothing but the number of no
examples which are classified as s or
you can say that wrongly predicted over
here
coming back to the last one that is T N
T N is nothing but the number of no
examples predicted as no over here or
classified as no that is nothing but the
true negative in this particular case
again if you look at this particular
thing TP and TN are correctly classified
or predicted FP and FN are incorrectly
predicted or classified in this case
first we will convert this multi-class
classification conclusion Matrix into
binary confusion Matrix and then we will
calculate the different performance
Matrix now the question comes in point
of us is how to convert this multi-class
classification confusion Matrix into
binary classification configuration
Matrix that can be done something like
this
what we need to do here is first we will
consider this class 1 as the S examples
and remaining these two that is class 2
and 3 will be considered as no examples
and then we will get only two classes
here that is class 1 as yes Class 2 3 as
no in this case now once you get that
particular thing you will get the
conversion Matrix something like this
one is yes here and 2 3 as considered as
no in this case
now if you look at this particular
conversion Matrix the number of class 1
examples which were predicted as one in
this case is eight here so that is what
I have written as a true positive in
this case this 2 and 0 they are of type
class 1 but they were classified as 2 3
here the meaning of this one is there of
type yes examples but they were
classified as no that is nothing but
false negative that is what I have
written here
coming back to these two examples if you
consider these two examples these two
are of type 2 3 that is nothing but no
examples but they were classified as
class one that is nothing but yes here
that is nothing but false positive false
positive will become 2 here and these
four examples are of type you can say
that two three and they were classified
as two three here the meaning is they
were classified correctly and it is true
negative here which is equivalent to 18
in this case now I will consider 2 as
the class s
and then remaining two that is 1 and 3
as the class no and then I will try to
come up with the confusion Matrix for
binary classification now if you look at
this particular Matrix again the number
of two examples or class two examples
which are predicted as two are nine here
so that is what you can notice here and
I have written it here that is true
positive in this case if you look at
these two numbers that is one and zero
they are of type Class 2 but they were
classified or predicted as one three
year the meaning is it is a false
negative in this case
and if you look at these two numbers
that is this two and these two they are
of type 1 and 3 that is nothing but no
examples but they were predicted as to
here that is nothing but yes in this
case so it is nothing but false positive
here and these four this is eight zero
one and seven they are of type 1 3 and
they were classified as 1 3 the meaning
is no examples where predictors no that
is nothing but true negative which is
equivalent to 16 here
similarly we need to create one more
confusion Matrix for the third one where
three will be considered as s and one
two will be considered as no here and it
looks something like this
once you form this confusion Matrix for
binary classification now we will try to
find the values for each of those
particular performance Matrix the first
one in this case is accuracy accuracy
for class 1 is equivalent to TP plus TN
that is nothing but a true positive plus
true negative that is the correct
classification divided by all
possibilities which are present in this
confusion Matrix that is nothing but t p
to be positive plus FN false negative FP
Falls positive plus t n that is true
negative here once you put the values
from this particular confusion Matrix
into this equation you will get 0.87 as
the accuracy for class 1 here similarly
we will calculate the accuracy for Class
2 again we need to use the same equation
but the values we need to use it from
this particular confusion Matrix here we
will get 0.83 as the
accuracy for second class similarly for
the third class we need to use the
values from this particular Matrix we
will get 0.90 as the accuracy in this
case
now we will try to calculate the
remaining performance Matrix Precision
of class 1 is equivalent to TP divided
by TT plus FP
so I will put the values here again I
will get the value as 0.8 for a Class 1
Precision similarly we will calculate
the recall for class 1 which is
equivalent to TP divided by T P plus FN
which is equivalent to 0.8 once you
calculate precision and recall for class
1 we can calculate the F1 score for
class 1 which is equivalent to 2 times
Precision multiplied by recall divided
by Precision plus recall we have these
values we will put those values and then
we will get 0.8 as the F1 score for the
class 1 over here
similarly I will calculate the Precision
for Class 2 I will put the values from
this one into this equation I will get
the Precision for Class 2 is equal to
0.69 similarly recall for Class 2 is
equal into 0.9 and the F1 score for
Class 2 is equivalent to
0.78 here
once you're done with the class 2 I will
go with class 3 again the same equation
only thing is we need to put the values
from this particular Matrix the
Precision for class 3 is equal to 1.0
recall is equivalent to 0.7 and F1 score
for class 3 is equivalent to 0.82 in
this case
once you calculate Precision recall and
F1 score the next point is to calculate
macro F1 score macro F1 score is always
equal into F1 score of class 1 plus F1
score of Class 2 plus F1 score of class
3 divided by 3 here because we have
three classes add all the F1 scores
divided by the number of classes here
we have already calculated these
particular values we will put it in this
equation we will get macro F1 score is
equivalent to 0.8 in this case
similarly we will calculate the weighted
F1 score which is equivalent to the
number of class 1 examples multiplied by
F1 score of class 1 plus the number of
Class 2 examples multiplied by F1 score
of cluster examples number of class 3
examples multiplied by F1 score of class
3 examples divided by number of class 1
examples plus number of Class 2 examples
plus number of class 3 examples which is
equivalent to 0.8 in this case
so in this video I have discussed how
can we convert multi-class
classification confusion Matrix into
binary confusion Matrix and how to
calculate the different performance
Matrix I hope the concept is clear if
you like the video do like and share
with your friends press the Subscribe
button for more videos press the Bell
icon for regular updates thank you for
watching